README.md, before:

# NewsPeek

* _NewsPeek:_ a peek at the news, with homage to George Orwell's _1984_

* _NewsPeek:_ the first personal newspaper (created in 1981)

* _NewsPeek:_ pre-Internet social media featuring _personalization with privacy_

## Preface

While an undergrad at M.I.T., I became aware of the ignorance, apathy and powerlessness expressed and/or felt by much of the society, and decided to do something about it. Perhaps due to the fact that I was so immersed in the process of learning my initial plan was to educate the world.

There was folly and perhaps a bit of hubris in this idea, partly because much of the world often appears not to desire further education, but more importantly, a single source of information could easily devolve into fascism.

While pondering what to do for an interdisciplinary thesis melding concepts from the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory and the Architecture Machine Group (now called the Arts and Media Technology Center, or the _Media Lab_, for short) I came to the realization that providing high quality information to those willing to seek it out (I called such people teachers) would be a key step in my original goal.

Further, the definition of high quality information should be up to the informed choice of each individual consumer. The entire publishing system was going to have to be turned upside down, and as a first step towards this I created a personal newspaper called _NewsPeek_ and designed and built its initial hardware and software as my undergraduate thesis in 1981.

_NewsPeek_ combined the seemingly limitless information resources of Mead Data Corporation's Nexis online news service with large-scale personal computing, artificial intelligence and advanced communications and networking to produce an electronic newspaper which contains high quality news, information and entertainment individualized by and for the user.

(For more on _NewsPeek_, read the [_NewsPeek Thesis_](thesis.md) or check out the _The Media Lab_ by Stewart Brand, Viking Press, (c)1987)

----

## Acknowledgements

This thesis was not created in a vacuum but rather at the M.I.T. Architecture Machine Group, an interdisciplinary multi-media laboratory extending the reach of computers into people's lives for the first time. Arch Mac's director, Nicholas Negroponte, Walter Bender, then a graduate student and later the executive director of the Media Lab, and Andrew Lippman, a professor focusing on the future of TV while I was focusing on the future of the newspaper, all provided encouragement and pushed me to explore the edges. Without their support and the fertile atmosphere they created within the walls of Arch Mac, _NewsPeek_  would not have been created.

I also drew ideas and methodologies from my work at the M.I.T. Artificial Intelligence Lab, and from interactions with its professors including Marvin Minsky, Seymour Papert, Gerry Sussman, Carl Hewitt and Richard Stallman among many others. The AI Lab was an awesome place in the late seventies and I was fortunate to be a part of it.

Finally, special thanks to Rocky Grober for typing my thesis as I scribbled it down on paper.

=Fen Labalme

----

## Why two dates?

The _NewsPeek_ concept, hardware and software interfaces to power it, and this thesis were all created in the 1980-1981 year culminating in its completion in August 1981. The author left the thesis in his advisor's office and left for a planned six-to-nine month job in California after which his plan was to return to complete the work as part of a graduate degree. But the California job - and the weather and experiences - were enticing so the task of following up on the degree slid to the back burner.

Many years later in 2018 I began the process of getting my already fully written thesis signed. Anne Hunter, Academic Administrator for the EECS Undergraduate and M.Eng. Programs provided invaluable assistance in tracking down decades old course records and graduation requirements, and I was doubly fortunate that Andy Lippman remembered me and my work and offered to read the old text and sign it. He gave me an "A" and wrote: _"A prescient project, well one and overdue for appreciation"_.

----

## The Original 1981 NewsPeek Thesis

A scan of the original can be seen here:
[NewsPeekThesisOriginalScan.pdf](assets/NewsPeekThesisOriginalScan.pdf)

## Changes from the original in this version

### Entire document:
* Formatted for Google Docs and Markdown from OCR scan
* Formatting of Nexis commands in monotype font

### Title page:
* New verbiage for the "Submitted" statement
* My name changed from "Steven Ford Labalme" to "Fen Labalme"
   * I legally changed my name in 2007
* "2018" added to "© 1981"
* Andrew Lippman added as Thesis Supervisor for 2018 signature

### Spelling corrections:
| original mis-spelling | corrected spelling |
|-----------------------|--------------------|
| horizens              | horizons           |
| anly                  | only               |
| dirict                | direct             |
| Kissenger             | Kissinger          |
| facillitate           | facilitate         |

Commit message:

mention arrival of the nexis terminal

README.md, after:

# NewsPeek

* _NewsPeek:_ a peek at the news, with homage to George Orwell's _1984_

* _NewsPeek:_ the first personal newspaper (created in 1981)

* _NewsPeek:_ pre-Internet social media featuring _personalization with privacy_

## Preface

While an undergrad at M.I.T. in the '70s, I was troubled by the ignorance, apathy and powerlessness expressed by much of society and I wanted to do something about it. Perhaps due to the fact that I was so immersed in the process of learning, I came up with the plan to educate the world. There was folly in this idea, partly because much of our society often appears not to desire further education, but more importantly, a single source of information could easily devolve into fascism.

While pondering what to do for a Computer Science thesis -- perhaps involving intelligent agents (actors) or dynamic first order logic proof checkers from the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory -- an exciting new piece of hardware arrived at the Architecture Machine Group (or "Arch Mac", later renamed the Arts and Media Technology Center, or the _Media Lab_, for short) where I was spending much of my time. A Mead Data Nexis/Lexis data terminal was installed with access to huge (for the time) quantities of news and information, but with a clunky user interface. Seeing this triggered the realization that providing high quality information to those willing to seek it out would be a key step in my original goal.

Further, the definition of high quality information should be up to the informed choice of each individual consumer. The entire publishing system was going to have to be turned upside down with people choosing what they wanted to read, and as a first step towards this I created a personal newspaper called _NewsPeek_ and designed and built a set of hardware and software interfaces to the Nexis terminal as my undergraduate thesis in 1981.

_NewsPeek_ combined the seemingly limitless information resources of Mead Data Corporation's Nexis online news service with large-scale personal computing, artificial intelligence and advanced communications and networking to produce an electronic newspaper which contains high quality news, information and entertainment individualized by and for the user.

(For more on _NewsPeek_, read the [_NewsPeek Thesis_](thesis.md) or check out the _The Media Lab_ by Stewart Brand, Viking Press, (c)1987)

----

### Acknowledgements

This thesis was not created in a vacuum but rather at the M.I.T. Architecture Machine Group, an interdisciplinary multi-media laboratory extending the reach of computers into people's lives for the first time. Arch Mac's director, Nicholas Negroponte, Walter Bender, then a graduate student and later the executive director of the Media Lab, and Andrew Lippman, a professor focusing on the future of TV while I was focusing on the future of the newspaper, all provided encouragement and pushed me to explore the edges. Without their support and the fertile atmosphere they created within the walls of Arch Mac, _NewsPeek_  would not have been created.

I also drew ideas and methodologies from my work at the M.I.T. Artificial Intelligence Lab, and from interactions with its professors including Marvin Minsky, Seymour Papert, Gerry Sussman, Carl Hewitt and Richard Stallman among many others. The AI Lab was an awesome place in the late seventies and I was fortunate to be a part of it.

Finally, special thanks to Rocky Grober for typing my thesis as I scribbled it down on paper.

=Fen Labalme

----

## Why two dates?

The _NewsPeek_ concept, hardware and software interfaces to power it, and this thesis were all created in the 1980-1981 year culminating in its completion in August 1981. The author left the thesis in his advisor's office and left for a planned six-to-nine month job in California after which his plan was to return to complete the work as part of a graduate degree. But the California job - and the weather and experiences - were enticing so the task of following up on the degree slid to the back burner.

Many years later in 2018 I began the process of getting my already fully written thesis signed. Anne Hunter, Academic Administrator for the EECS Undergraduate and M.Eng. Programs provided invaluable assistance in tracking down decades old course records and graduation requirements, and I was doubly fortunate that Andy Lippman remembered me and my work and offered to read the old text and sign it. He gave me an "A" and wrote: _"A prescient project, well one and overdue for appreciation"_.

----

## The Original 1981 NewsPeek Thesis

A scan of the original can be seen here:
[NewsPeekThesisOriginalScan.pdf](assets/NewsPeekThesisOriginalScan.pdf)

## Changes from the original in this version

### Entire document:
* Formatted for Google Docs and Markdown from OCR scan
* Formatting of Nexis commands in monotype font

### Title page:
* New verbiage for the "Submitted" statement
* My name changed from "Steven Ford Labalme" to "Fen Labalme"
   * I legally changed my name in 2007
* "2018" added to "© 1981"
* Andrew Lippman added as Thesis Supervisor for 2018 signature

### Spelling corrections:
| original mis-spelling | corrected spelling |
|-----------------------|--------------------|
| horizens              | horizons           |
| anly                  | only               |
| dirict                | direct             |
| Kissenger             | Kissinger          |
| facillitate           | facilitate         |
